Now, of course, there is more we could test on our off middleware, but I'd say we tested it quite
extensively thus far, and therefore I want to move on and I want to move on to our controllers, which
of course also has a lot of our core logic there.
We have that off controller, obviously we have that feed controller.
Now for that feed controller, we have routes where we need to be authenticated.
If we have a look at our routes here for getting posts, for example, we need to be authenticated for
creating posts.
We need to be authenticated essentially for all our post related routes.
We need to be authenticated.
And before we take care about that, let's have a look at our off controller.
Therefore, because these routes don't require us to be authenticated though, does it really matter
too much?
Just the question.
Well, let's have a look at how we reach our controller functions here, like sign up or log in.
We of course reached them through our routes, which are defined in the routes folder where we send
requests to in the end.
So these are the API endpoints we're exposing here and now.
What did I mention earlier?
What what are we testing?
Well, we are writing unit tests.
We are testing units in our code just as the middleware, the off middleware.
And therefore, what we will not test is the routing here.
We will not test whether we can send a request to log in and we execute the log in function in the off
controller because that entire forwarding of the request, the execution of this method here, that
is all handled by express.
And as I mentioned earlier, you don't want to test our libraries, you want to test your own code.
So we absolutely don't need to test this flow.
And therefore we'll just test these controller functions we export here like the sign up or the log
in function.
These are the things we want to test now in there.
There, of course, again, a broad variety of things we can test.
We can test whether we're able to extract the email and password from the incoming request, though
that's a test that's not too useful because we will simulate the request that's coming in so we decide
whether that is set or not, but we can then test if it behaves correctly, if no email is set, for
example, or if we already have a user with that email.
However, there is one new complexity added.
Now we have a database.
Now we're interacting with the user model here.
And the user model, of course, is based on our mongoose models here.
That's our user model and that behind the scenes uses MongoDB.
And that of course brings one important question into the focus How can we test our database?
How can we handle this now?
And turns out there are two main strategies we can follow.
So let's have a look at both.
Strategy number one, for a testing code that involves database operations is that we stub or mock the
parts that actually rely on database access.
And what would this mean?
This could mean, for example, that here when we execute find one, we again create a step that returns
a predefined result and we then test if our code behaves correctly.
So for example, we might be interested here in finding out how our code behaves when find one frozen
error.
So if we're having trouble interacting with the database or how our code behaves, if we don't have
a user with that email address when logging in, these are two different scenarios and we can write
two different tests for that.
Both scenarios should actually throw an error.
Eventually.
Here we throw one manually and if find one fails, it also will throw an error.
But the status code, for example, should be different.
The status code should be 500.
If the database fails because we use our default code then or we set our own 401 code.
If we have no user.
Now to test this, I'll first of all create a new file in the test folder and I will name this off controller
JS.
And in there, just as in the off middleware file, I'll import expect from Chae and I'll also import
sign.
And because I will start with stubbing that post, find one method that of course that user find one
method.
Therefore I will also import the user by requiring it from the user model file just as I'm doing it
here in the off controller there we are also importing the user model.
So now I want to test that log in function and since I want to tested that function, we need to import
this here as well.
Or in general, I'll import my off controller by requiring it from the off file in the controllers folder.
Now let's edit this gripe block maybe where we test our off controller log in process, because even
if we're only testing the off controller in this entire file, we might be testing different parts of
that controller, like log in, sign up and so on.
So here I'll start with log in and then here I want to start by.
Stopping my find one method because that is the first tactic we can apply.
We can simply stop that a way so that we don't make a real database access.
So here what we can do is of course I can again use sign and create a stub created on the user object
for the find one method.
Now, if I want to force this to throw an error, I can then call user find one.
Froze.
Now here, this will throw an error.
Now, by the way, of course, one issue I have here is that I'm in the described block.
This should go into an eight block, though, so into an actual test case.
So here it should flow an error.
If accessing the database fails, for example.
So now here in that function, we define our actual test code and there we set up that step.
And the important thing here, of course, is I'm faking that database fail because I completely replace
the find one method with a stop that will throw an error.
Because the actual thing I want to check is of course that we should throw an error with code 500.
So I want to check whether our default status code down there really gets applied correctly.
Now back in the off controller.
In the end.
I also want to call Restore here, but in between I of course want to define my expectation.
And the expectation here is that for my auth controller, the login method, when that gets called that,
it actually throws an error.
Now for that, let's have a look at the off controller again and you should now recognize that we have
the async keyword in front of that.
It's not a normal function, it's an ace function.
And that means in the end we use promises in there.
You might remember async await is just a more elegant syntax for using promises.
So actually we have asynchronous code in here, which is another complexity we'll have to deal with
because the execution of that code will not happen synchronously.
And that means that by default our expectation won't work the way you might expect it to work.